## inputs
This is a list of input dictionaries. In our simple example above, there's only one input, of type "text". We give it a label and initial value with the keys "label" and "value".  The value from this input will be used as an input parameter when generating the outputs (a plot in this case), so we need to also give it a variable_name that we can reference in the getPlot method. "action_id" is an optional variable that equals either an output_id from the list of outputs, or a control_id from the list of controls (we'll get to controls in the next example). When action_id is defined, a change in the input will result in either an update to the referenced output or a call to the functions connected to the referenced control. 

## outputs
output_types can be "plot", "image", "table", "html", or "download". In addition to the output_type, we also need to provide a unique output_id. If this output is suppose to get updated on execution of one of the controls specified in the list of controls, we need to also specify the control_id of that controller. All outputs get generated on page load by default. If we want an output *not* to load on the page load, we can also set "on_page_load" to False.

## controls
Controls are one mechanism by which a spyre app can update its outputs. The "control_id" can be referenced by either an input or an output. When an output references the control_id, executing the control updates that output. When an input references the controld_id (via the "action_id"), updating the input executes the control. The two control_types are "button" and "hidden". "button" will add a button to the left panel. No control is added to the left-panel for control_types "hidden". "hidden" controls are useful for linking a single input action to multiple outputs.